[RLlib; docs] Docs do-over (new API stack): RLModules vol 03; Actual rst rewrite and upgrade. (#49387)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/rllib/rllib-rlmodule.rst

.. include:: /_includes/rllib/new_api_stack.rst

.. _rlmodule-guide:

RL Modules
==========

The :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.rl_module.RLModule` class in RLlib's new API stack allows you to write custom

> models in RLlib, including highly complex multi-network setups, often found in multi-agent- or model-based algorithms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
models in RLlib, including highly complex multi-network setups, often found in multi-agent or model-based algorithms.
```

.. testcode::

    import torch
    from ray.rllib.core.rl_module.torch.torch_rl_module import TorchRLModule

    class MyTorchPolicy(TorchRLModule):

        def setup(self):
            # You have access here to the following already set attributes:
            # self.observation_space
            # self.action_space
            # self.inference_only
            # self.model_config  # <- a dict with custom settings

            # Use the observation space (if a Box) to infer the input dimension.
            input_dim = self.observation_space.shape[0]

            # Use the model_config dict to extract the hidden dimension.
            hidden_dim = self.model_config["fcnet_hiddens"][0]

            # Use the action space to infer the number of output nodes.
            output_dim = self.action_space.n

            # Build all the layers and subcomponents here you need for the
            # RLModule's forward passes.
            self._pi_head = torch.nn.Sequential(
                torch.nn.Linear(input_dim, hidden_dim),
                torch.nn.ReLU(),
                torch.nn.Linear(hidden_dim, output_dim),
            )

Forward methods
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> After that, implement the forward computation logic. You can either define a generic forward logic by overriding the

Author: ```suggestion
Implementing the forward computation logic, you can either define a generic forward behavior by overriding the
```

            class MyTorchPolicy(TorchRLModule):
                ...

                def _forward_inference(self, batch):
                    ...
                    return {
                        Columns.ACTIONS: ...  # actions here are used as-is
                    }

                def _forward_exploration(self, batch):
                    ...
                    return {
                        Columns.ACTIONS: ...  # actions here are used as-is (no sampling step!)
                        Columns.ACTION_DIST_INPUTS: ...  # optional: If provided, used to compute action probs and logp.
                    }

    .. tab-item:: Not returning "actions" key

        .. code-block:: python

            from ray.rllib.core import Columns, TorchRLModule

            class MyTorchPolicy(TorchRLModule):
                ...

                def _forward_inference(self, batch):
                    ...
                    return {
                        # RLlib:
                        # - Generates distribution from ACTION_DIST_INPUTS parameters.
                        # - Converts distribution to a deterministic equivalent.

>                         # - Samples from the (deterministic) distribution.

Author: ```suggestion
                        # - Samples from the deterministic distribution.
```

                        Columns.ACTION_DIST_INPUTS: ...
                    }

                def _forward_exploration(self, batch):
                    ...
                    return {
                        # RLlib:
                        # - Generates distribution from ACTION_DIST_INPUTS parameters.

>                         # - Samples from the (stochastic) distribution.

Author: ```suggestion
                        # - Samples from the stochastic distribution.
```

    # abstract methods we need to implement (besides `setup()` and the `_forward_..()`
    # methods):
    print(
        PPOConfig()
        .get_default_learner_class()
        .rl_module_required_apis()
    )

.. note::
    The preceding VPG example module isn't required to implement any APIs yet. This is because
    you still haven't considered training it with any particular algorithm.
    However, you can find examples of algorithm-ready (:py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.ppo.PPO`) custom RLModules
    `here <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/rllib/examples/rl_modules/classes/tiny_atari_cnn_rlm.py>`__
    and `here <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/rllib/examples/rl_modules/classes/lstm_containing_rlm.py>`__.

Putting it all together
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With the now implemented elements of your custom :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.rl_module.RLModule`,
you get a working end-to-end example:

.. literalinclude:: ../../../rllib/examples/rl_modules/classes/vpg_rlm.py
        :language: python

.. _rllib-rl-module-w-custom-action-dists:

Custom action distributions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> In the preceding examples, you relied on your RLModule to use the correct action distribution with the computed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding examples rely on the RLModule uses the correct action distribution with the computed
```

> ``ACTION_DIST_INPUTS`` returned by your forward methods. RLlib picks a default distribution class based on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``ACTION_DIST_INPUTS`` returned by the forward methods. RLlib picks a default distribution class based on
```

the action space, which is :py:class:`~ray.rllib.models.torch.torch_distributions.TorchCategorical` for ``Discrete`` action spaces
and :py:class:`~ray.rllib.models.torch.torch_distributions.TorchDiagGaussian` for ``Box`` action spaces.

> If you want to use a different distribution class (and return parameters for its constructor from your forward methods),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a different distribution class and return parameters for its constructor from your forward methods,
```

> override the following methods in your :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.rl_module.RLModule` implementation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
override the following methods in the :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.rl_module.RLModule` implementation:
```

- :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.rl_module.RLModule.get_inference_action_dist_cls`
- :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.rl_module.RLModule.get_exploration_action_dist_cls`
- and :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.rl_module.RLModule.get_train_action_dist_cls`

> `Commonly used distribution implementations can be found here <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/rllib/models/torch/torch_distributions.py>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See `torch_distributions.py <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/rllib/models/torch/torch_distributions.py>`__ for common distribution implementations.
```

> Implement a deterministic counterpart of your distribution class through the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implement a deterministic counterpart of the distribution class through the
```

:py:meth:`~ray.rllib.models.distributions.Distribution.to_deterministic` method.

> You can choose to compute deterministic actions, by creating the deterministic counterpart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose to compute deterministic actions by creating the deterministic counterpart.
```

Implementing custom MultiRLModules
----------------------------------

For multi-module setups, RLlib provides the :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.multi_rl_module.MultiRLModule` class,

> whose default implementation is a dictionary of individual :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.rl_module.RLModule` objects,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
whose default implementation is a dictionary of individual :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.rl_module.RLModule` objects.
```

> one for each submodule and identified by a ``ModuleID``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each submodule has an RLModule identified by a ``ModuleID``.
```

> The base-class :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.multi_rl_module.MultiRLModule` implementation works for most of those

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The base-class :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.multi_rl_module.MultiRLModule` implementation works for most of the
```

> use cases that need to define independent neural networks . However, for any complex, multi-network or multi-agent use cases, where agents share one or more neural networks,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use cases that need to define independent neural networks. However, for any complex, multi-network or multi-agent use case, where agents share one or more neural networks,
```

you should inherit from this class and override the default implementation.

The following code snippets create a custom multi-agent RL module with two simple "policy head" modules, which

> share the same encoder (the third network in the MultiRLModule). The encoder receives the raw observations from the env

Reviewer: ```suggestion
share the same encoder, the third network in the MultiRLModule. The encoder receives the raw observations from the env
```

and outputs embedding vectors that then serve as input for the two policy heads to compute the agents' actions.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: MultiRLModule (w/ two policy nets and one encoder)

        .. literalinclude:: ../../../rllib/examples/rl_modules/classes/vpg_using_shared_encoder_rlm.py
            :language: python
            :start-after: __sphinx_doc_mrlm_begin__
            :end-before: __sphinx_doc_mrlm_end__

        .. literalinclude:: ../../../rllib/examples/rl_modules/classes/vpg_using_shared_encoder_rlm.py
            :language: python
            :start-after: __sphinx_doc_mrlm_2_begin__
            :end-before: __sphinx_doc_mrlm_2_end__

    .. tab-item:: Policy RLModule

>         Within your MultiRLModule, you need to have two policy sub-RLModules. They may be of the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Within a MultiRLModule, you need to have two policy sub-RLModules. They may be of the same
```

        class, which can be implemented as follows:

        .. literalinclude:: ../../../rllib/examples/rl_modules/classes/vpg_using_shared_encoder_rlm.py
            :language: python
            :start-after: __sphinx_doc_policy_begin__
            :end-before: __sphinx_doc_policy_end__
        .. literalinclude:: ../../../rllib/examples/rl_modules/classes/vpg_using_shared_encoder_rlm.py
            :language: python
            :start-after: __sphinx_doc_policy_2_begin__
            :end-before: __sphinx_doc_policy_2_end__

    .. tab-item:: Shared encoder RLModule

>         Finally, your shared encoder RLModule should look similar to this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Finally, the shared encoder RLModule should look similar to this:
```
